Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now with this lecture we're going to look at creating a list of numbers.
So I just started off as usual with some comments at the top.
I'm going to look at how we can use the list function to convert a series of numbers into a list.
So in the last lecture we saw that the range function simply prints out a series of numbers but we can
use the list function to convert that series of numbers into a list.
So let's have a look at that now and let's start off at a comment.
Converting numbers into a list.
Perfect.
So numbers equals list open brackets range open brackets.
And in this range let's place 1 to 6.
And don't forget to close off with two closing brackets.
Now print numbers.
There we go a list of numbers so instead of the series we have a list 1 2 3 4 5.
So we can do more with the range function.
Let's print out a list of odd numbers between one on one hundred and one.
So let's have a look.
Odd numbers.
Equals list
range.
One to One Hundred and One
and Two and explain the two.
Now in just a moment and let's print that out.
Can print that out whatever my print statement so print odd numbers and there we go all odd numbers
up to 100 in one.
And in this example the range function starts at 1 and then adds two to us.
So the last value we have in the range here is to.
It adds to repeatedly until it reaches our pass at the end value of 101.
The range function can be used to create almost any set of numbers that you want.
Here's an example of how to create a list of the first 10 square numbers.
So don't forget that in Python to act abstract symbols represent exponents and we saw that back when
we started to put numbers.
So let's create an empty list so squares equals an opening closing square brackets for value in range
one to 11.
And I forgot in my opening bracket there.
So don't make that mistake to remove that space colon I used to always forget the colon so don't forget
that and if you do get an error it's probably because you made a typo or you just left out the code
on which is an easy thing to do.
Square equals value.
So the value in the range to 10 squares equals append Square.
So all of this should be very familiar to you.
Let's not go back to the previous lectures and have a look and then print squares.
So let's have a look.
Well we have an error.
And where is our error.
A pen is not defined.
And why is a pen not the find.
Well because I have an equal sign and as we know it doesn't work that way.
So the Panthers are square and that should be that append.
There we go.
Let's have a look and there we go.
In our third list we have a list of squared numbers 1 to 11.
Not bad.
So what else can we do with a list of numbers.
Well let's create a new list.
The IGY and let's call it less digits the IGY itx digits.
And let's go one two three four five.
Perfect.
So there we have a list of digits.
How about finding the minimum number in a list corrent minimum and mam's for short digits.
T i g i t s have a look.
There we go our last line here.
Number one the minimum number in our list.
What about the maximum.
Let's just change minimum max and a x
5.
How about one more the sum.
There we go 15.
Some of the digits in our list.
So that's been a brief introduction into a list of numbers and how we can use the range function.
And for loops to manipulate them we'll come back to this topic again in future lectures.
Thank you.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.